Bock globule I so much fun to say I
think I just want to record Rowan
Atkinson saying that and then make it my
text tone so bought globules are these
really small like isolated dusty nebulae
that you find like embedded in much
larger star-forming nebula like the
Orion Nebula or even like the running
tricking nebula where you've got these
like swaths of bright glowing pink
hydrogen gas in the background and then
in front of that you have these really
dark regions where we think there might
be stars forming inside them the
surprisingly for us running buck doesn't
actually sound for something like it
isn't an acronym it's actually someone's
name so Bart Bach was a Dutch astronomer
he was active sort of in the 40s 50s and
60s and so what he said in 1947 along
with his collaborator Edith Riley was
that these globules were kind of like
cocoons where you have stars forming
inside of this incredibly dense region
of gas and dust and they're hidden away
from us by the fact that it there is so
much dust there that's really difficult
theory to establish those specially in
the 40s where optical Astronomy really
was at the forefront to be able to
confirm that you kind of have to see
through the dust and that was only
proved in 1990 by lineae and Clemens who
actually took a near infrared telescope
looked at these bottles and actually
found yes there were stars forming
inside of them so Bok globules are found
in what we call h2 regions now I'm an
astronomer so I am NOT talking about
molecular hydrogen here I'm not talking
about hydrogen hydrogen assam comes
together to form a molecule have h2 I'm
talking about ionized hydrogen so in
astronomy we talk about ionization which
is this process where you taken and
Assam and you've taken away an electron
okay so if you have a neutral hydrogen
just one ounce of a hydrogen proton and
electron we call that h1 okay if you
take away that electron and ionized it
it becomes h2 with a Roman numeral and
that's the same across all elements so
you can have o one which would be
neutral oxygen then you have o2 which is
ionized options you know o 3 which is
doubly ionized oxygen you've taken away
2 electron so there's a lot of confusion
there
between the sciences sure you know
basically that would be written as h
plus in chemistry but there's also
confusion with astronomers when we start
talking about h2 regions so I remember
in my first year of my PhD I had to have
an exam an oral example of IVA at the
end of my first year to prove that like
you know I was doing my own work and
that I was you know fine to continue on
the course and get my PhD and they were
saying like oh what do you need to form
stars and I was like you need H to me
were like no no you don't need H to you
know what what do you actually need to
form stars and I was like you need to
and we had this whole back-and-forth
that ages everybody know you don't need
picture and I was like yeah you do you
definitely need molecular hydrogen to
form stars that's what star fuel is
called molecular hydrogen and they were
like oh we thought you meant ionized
hydrogen like h2 we're all just like oh
my god we just wasted five minutes
arguing about this so the most accepted
Theory sort of this process is is that
you start with a giant molecular cloud
of hydrogen what you can have is either
a collision with another cloud or
perhaps even a shock wave from a
supernova start dying nearby throwing
off the huge amount of energy in either
of those scenarios what's gonna happen
is you're gonna force gas together and
you shock it and basically you're gonna
make some gas denser in some areas and
so there isn't going to be dense it's
gonna collapse under its own gravity and
then perhaps even it might become so
dense that nuclear fusion starts and
you've formed a star that star is then
producing a huge amount of energy you
know the nuclear reactions are producing
photons of light across the full
electromagnetic spectrum but in
particular in the UV now UV photons can
come along and hit a hydrogen molecule
two atoms hydrogen bonded together and
cause them to split apart and then also
caused them to ionize as well so you've
started with a giant molecular cloud of
hydrogen you formed a star in it but
then that one that star is then gonna do
is ionize the rest of the hydrogen
around it so it's like oh sorry you
can't be used more for star formation
thing is that giant molecular cloud that
you started with will also have what
economists called dust
and when we say dust we basically mean
anything heavier than nitrogen or helium
you know things like organic little
molecules and like carbon and oxygen
nitrogen that are just hanging around
from probably the previous generation of
stars but all these molecules are opaque
now if you form a massive star that's
gonna have a lot more energy to throw
off all the surrounding dust and gas
that they've gone into forming the star
originally but if you have a smaller
star then actually that's not gonna have
as much energy to throw off the
surrounding molecular hydrogen all that
dust and so what we think we end up with
is one of these book globules where you
still have all of this molecular
hydrogen dust actually blocking our view
to the youngest stars basically sort of
blocking the view to the stellar nursery
and because we can't actually see into
them we don't really have any idea of
what their structure is like we can kind
of try and map it out from you know how
much absorption along the line of sight
actually happens to see where the denser
regions are in the globule but really
they're a little bit of a mystery to us
because yes the infrared light can sort
of see through it to see the stars but
you don't actually see the gas and dust
itself when you do that
so it's a really interesting sort of
conundrum in that we think we kind of
understand what's going on here
but in reality we still don't understand
the actual object itself so we're the
closest Bok globules to us is Barnard 68
which is actually blocking 3,700
background stars from the Milky Way so
it's a really impressive object because
you can basically just see this really
shadowy diffuse outline of this gas
cloud over the background stars of the
Milky Way and you can see how much light
it really really blocks now Barnard 68
it's also kind of wobbling in shape and
that's all to do with the balance
between the outward force of pressure
from the newly formed stars in the
center giving off all that energy
balanced with gravity constantly pulling
it inwards now those two forces are
always changing if you're forming new
stars or if the stars are orbiting each
other that you form
inside the bottle you'll then you are
gonna get this sort of gas cloud that is
very almost like amorphous and wobbling
but because Barnard 68 has these such
crisp well-defined edges it probably
means that gravity is sort of winning
that fight a little bit so perhaps it
might collapse to form another star soon
and might even clear out that gas and
dust field maybe even in the next sort
of 200 thousand years or so so you might
actually be able to see through it
eventually another one of these bottles
is Thackery's at globule which is
actually found in the running chicken
nebula which is possibly my favorite
ever nebula just from the name alone I
personally don't see how it looks like a
running chicken but man I didn't name it
but the science in Thackery's lobule is
really cool so in the smaller globules
they actually don't see any stars
forming inside of them at all and a
larger one in the near-infrared you can
see six stars inside of it and also in
the surrounding nebula you can see a lot
of stars that have previously formed
that are quite massive and are currently
responsible for ionizing that hydrogen
gas around it which is what it gives it
the nebula it's sort of pink glow and so
what the idea is is that the energy from
those massive stars has actually
fragmented the larger globule into these
much smaller little chunks of dust and
gas which are now sort of not quite big
enough in order to trigger stars forming
inside of them and that's why we don't
see anything when we look in the near
infrared so these BOTS globular possibly
not as well understood as you think they
might be given that they in our own
interstellar back garden but these
theories of bark bark and Edith Riley
from the 40s that you know this could be
the site for all star formation so every
single star that's formed in the
universe could have formed in a similar
scenario to what we see in these bot
globules and if that's the case it means
that in visible light at least all star
formation is essentially hidden from
those entirely who always calm down I'm
still reeling from watching Game of
Thrones like sees a episode three I
watched it last night and I still like
love another one of these blobby old
block
bubbles I've never found another buck
grab you like me all the comments are
gonna be how I pronounce
I can just see it H say it again for the
people in the back H all the caterpillar
Bob globule cool
you